Have you, though,
ever felt alone in your assignment,
even if for just a few hours
in the ministry?
Brother Pontien Mukanga may have felt
that way early in his assignment.
He was the first circuit overseer
for all of what is now
the Democratic Republic of Congo
and the Republic of Congo.
He traveled great distances to visit
the few brothers throughout the territory.
Listen to what encouraged him
the most to keep going.
In 1960,
I was made a circuit overseer
for the whole of Congo.
I was so happy to receive this privilege.
But I was shocked and scared.
The assignment was huge.
Congo is a vast country.
I was afraid to go to places I didn’t know.
I felt overwhelmed,
so I turned to Jehovah.
Sometimes I had to go through
savannahs and across the jungle.
There were wild animals.
One day, I climbed up a tree
to find a place to sleep.
I tied myself to a branch with my belt.
I was afraid I would be taken by a boa snake.
I was afraid of getting lost in the forest.
Visiting the brothers was very difficult.
Sometimes the journey took many days.
I remember one day,
I left my house
to visit the brothers to encourage them.
I left at 5:30 in the morning,
and I arrived at 7:30 that night.
I had to push my bicycle through sand
for up to 13 miles (21 km) or even more.
Other times, we traveled by truck.
That was not easy.
You had to climb on top of the truck.
I had to hold on tight so as not to fall.
Congregations, isolated groups
were far away from one another.
There were no phones at that time either.
Even though they did not know I was coming,
they made me feel so welcome.
The brothers were really very hospitable.
When I arrived,
I was exhausted
but so happy to see the brothers.
The Kitawala was a religion.
They sent many letters
to the Belgium branch
asking to be recognized
as Jehovah’s Witnesses.
These people used
our publications
and used the name Watch Tower.
It created a lot of confusion.
To clarify the matter,
the organization prepared a booklet.
My mission was to check whether
there were any genuine
Jehovah’s Witnesses in Kisangani.
We found out that these people were
not Jehovah’s Witnesses.
In all the confusion,
people even tried to kill me
during the trip.
Fortunately, I managed to escape.
Since it was Jehovah
who assigned me this privilege,
I was confident
that he would always help me.
And today, I am very happy
to have at my side my children,
my grandchildren,
and my great-grandchildren
—all Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Jehovah has given me many blessings.
I am truly grateful.
What a joy to be used by Almighty God.
Through all these years,
I have never lacked anything.
Jehovah has given me the strength
to serve him up until now—to the age of 86.
In everything and for everything,
my trust really is in Jehovah.
There were 46 publishers
in the whole of Congo.
Today, I hear there are more than
223,000 Jehovah’s Witnesses
in the Congo.
Today, when I see
the increase of Jehovah’s people,
to me it is like a miracle.
I thank Jehovah
for allowing me to see
‘the little one become a thousand’
here in the Congo.
Brother Mukanga continues to serve
as an elder at nearly 88 years old.
Can you imagine yourself
experiencing both the joys
and difficulties he had
as a circuit overseer?
He courageously visited
the Kitawala religious groups
who claimed to serve Jehovah,
only to find some were violent
and practiced immorality.
But it was his reliance on Jehovah
and watching Him turn
the small group of brothers
into more than 200,000
that has kept him going.